.. _research:

==========
 Research
==========

The goal of my research is to elucidate the biological mechanisms underlying
the computations performed by the human visual system. I aim to combine
physiological and behavioral measurements, together with precise quantitative
characterization and analysis to understand basic questions about the
organization of the visual system in healthy and diseased states.

The goal of my current research project is to characterize the neural substrate
underlying differences between perception of the central and peripheral parts
of the visual field. Important visual functions, such as reading, require
central vision and clinical conditions, such as macular degeneration
selectively affect this part of the visual field, conferring significant
disability. I am focusing the investigation on the perception of boundaries
between different textures. These boundaries are used in order to parse images
into distinct regions and objects and perception of these boundaries differs
between central and peripheral vision. These differences are likely to result
from the manner in which information is processed in different parts of the
visual field and the way in which information is transmitted through the visual
system, via the anatomical connections between different regions of the visual
system.


Past research
=============

The following projects are organized in reverse chronological order, starting
from the most recent.

Neurochemistry of perception, attention and learning
----------------------------------------------------
As part of my PhD, I conducted several projects, examining the role of a
variety of neurochemical mechanisms in perception attenton and learning. 

Neural mechanisms of perceptual learning:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this project I conducted psychophysical experiments in which a
pharmacological manipulation was applied to increase levels of the
neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) in the nervous systems of participants,
while they were training on a visual motion direction discrimination task. We
found that enhancing the cholinergic system resulted in increased perceptual
learning (PL) in the trained condition and in increased specificity of learning
to that condition.
   
Neurochemical mechanisms of attention
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In this project I conducted a series of behavioral pharmacology experiments
aimed at delineating the role of ACh in the allocation of visual spatial
attention. In collaboration with `Ayelet Landau`__ and `Bill Prinzmetal`__, I
used a visual cueing task and found that pharmacological enhancement of ACh
increases the processing benefits due to voluntary attention, but does not
affect involuntary attention.

__ ayelet_
__ bill_

In further experiments (conducted in collaboration with `Deanna Wallace`__ and
`Mark D’Esposito`__), we have studied the role of the neurotransmitter dopamine
in attention. We found that increased DA transmission led to different effects
in different individuals, depending on their baseline DA levels (as predicted
by genetic measurements).

__ deanna_
__ mark_


Visual perception in patients with schizophrenia
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In collaboration with `Jong Yoon`__ and `Cameron Carter`__ at UC Davis, we have
been studying the role of the neurotransmitter GABA in visual processing in
schizophrenia. Initially, we conducted psychophysical measurements of visual
surround suppression in a group of these patients and found that they had
reduced levels of orientation-specific surround suppression. Following these
initial findings, we conducted measurements of GABA levels in the occipital
cortex of patients with schizophrenia and healthy controls, using 1-H MRS. We
found that patients with schizophrenia have lower GABA concentrations in their
occipital cortex and that there is a correlation between GABA concentrations in
participants’ occipital cortex and behavioral performance in a surround
suppression task. A prediction of the previous findings is that patients with
schizophrenia will have wider orientation tuning than controls. We have
recently conducted psychophysical experiments confirming this prediction.

__ jong_
__ cam_

Cross-modal compensation in blind individuals
----------------------------------------------

During my studies for the M.A., I conducted a thesis project focused on
plasticity in the auditory system of congenitally blind individuals. I designed
a battery of psychophysical and cognitive tests and tested a group of blind
individuals and control subjects. In agreement with prior research, the testing
revealed that blind individuals possess an advantage in memory
performance. Also, we found an advantage in auditory speech-perception
tasks. However, when memory was tested in individually-tailored threshold
conditions (the stimulus amplitude that allows the subject to reliably identify
80% of the presented items), the memory advantage was abolished. We concluded
that the cognitive advantage relies on the sensory advantage.

Neural coding in the grasshopper auditory system
------------------------------------------------

The primary auditory system of the grasshopper *Locusta Migratoria* is composed
of approximately 70 receptor neurons in each 'ear'. However, despite the
relatively small number of cells in the system, many species of grasshoppers
rely heavily on hearing to perform important functions, such as finding of
mates and avoidance of predators. In this project, performed in the lab of
`Andreas Herz`__ at the `ITB`__ in Berlin, I recorded the responses of these
auditory neurons to time-varying auditory stimuli and in collaboration with
several other researchers (`Sebastian Watzl`__, `Tim Gollisch`__, `Martin
Stemmler`__ and `Ines Samengo`__), I analyzed these responses. We found that in
order to reliably transmit information about the auditory environment, these
neurons produce extremely accurate responses (repeatable on the time-scale of
0.1 msec!). In further analysis of this data, by `Hugo Eyerhabide`__, we found
that these cells complement this extreme accuracy with a code relying on the
emission of stereotypical bursts of action potentials.

The data from this project is publically available through the
`Collaborative Research in Computational Neuroscience`__ data sharing website.

__ andreas_
__ itb_
__ sebastian_
__ tim_
__ martin_
__ ines_
__ hugo_
__ crcns_




.. include:: links.txt
